## Multiverse and The Need for Appreciating Diversity

Would you place yourself above and beyond God, to assert limitations upon God's Godliness by your dictum, in order to prevent or curtail God from creating infinitely many universes, all running in parallel, each of infinite expanse, and, each existing with a variety of differences among their constituent things. 

Now, if you don't like theology, and want a sentence that sounds more science like, ask yourself if a planet or a solar system, or a galaxy, or a cluster of galaxies and so on, can exist due to a superposition of: planets, solar systems, galaxies, galaxy clusters, and other celestial things? 

In pondering answers to such questions pertaining to theoretical physics, one might be able to arrive at a conception of what the words like, "superposition" and "multiverse", are supposed to mean; especially if one considers the entire universe that we live in, to exist as a superposition of dynamic interactions among certain irreducible, ontic things. 

What might those ontic things be? [The standard model of particle physics,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Model) which keeps evolving as newer discoveries are made in physical sciences, alludes to numerous fundamental particles and forces, as the ontic building blocks of the universe. All of those fundamental things, coincidentally, can construct a number of universes that might co-exist, as the multiverse. There is no such thing, within the standard model of particle physics or in quantum mechanics, that would restrict or prevent the existence of multiverses. But then, one can simply assign a name and a meaning, to the collection of all of the parallel universes, in their conjoined form, as, "The Universe." So, perhaps, all the multiverses taken together as a whole, is a single universe. 

Speaking of overlapping meanings: Relative to the size of any human body as a datum, descriptions of electrons and other *sub-atomic* entities are said to be in a quantum state, due to a "superposition" of interactions and dynamism, among several things that are [smaller than electrons.](https://phys.org/news/2015-05-electron.html) Similarly, relative to the size of galaxies as a datum, human bodies and other *sub-planetary* entities might as well be in a quantum state, that come into existence as an emergent phenomenon, due to dynamic interactions among things which are smaller than the size of human bodies. That is to say, you and I are like electrons fluttering about from one quantized thermodynamic energy level to another, and are governed by the mathematics and physics of quantum mechanics, with respect to the size of solar systems and galaxies. 

Now, just in case you are a fan of twirling Occam's Razor on your tongue - 

Have you tried to apply Occam's Razor to the way [the maxim of Occam's Razor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occam%27s_razor) is stated? You will eventually discover that you need to modify how it is stated to include the minimum number of "irreducible components", that describe the *variance* within the structural and functional architecture of *a given system,* "to a 'desired' level of precision and accuracy, based on an 'irrefutable' and an indisputable datum." 

You may then come to accept that, an understanding of simplicity versus complexity, is also subjective to a person's education, experiences, emotional state of being, and cultural upbringing. Too often, a simpler explanation about something, merely means that the given statements, were at the reading level of the person receiving them, and that the overall set of statements, was comprehensible as well as "pleasing", to the person as an audience. So, would you be able to decide for the rest of humanity, whether the Schrodinger Wave equation with its mathematical notations is either a simple, or a complex explanation of the phenomenon it models?  

The subjective notion of clarity versus obscurity, invariably comes into the picture, even when one tries to use as few concepts or resources as possible, to express an idea as clearly and succinctly as possible. The eventual qualitative feeling, or *[qualia,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qualia)* obtained by a member of the audience who experiences the given objective or subjective views, in a personally interpreted manner at a particular moment, naturally depends on the instantaneous mood of the audience, and that too, of ones belonging to a certain type of upbringing and zeitgeist. 

Explanations, certainly do need to have a particular level of granularity and aesthetic appeal, that suits the capacities, preferences, and tastes of a target audience. Attempting to homogenize the entirety of human species throughout the ages and across the whole universe, into a single clump, to shoehorn the desired worldviews of Euro-centric evangelists on topics pertaining to science, religion, sociology, geopolitics, arts, or any other field of study, is quite offensive to those who appreciate diversity, as being an indispensable contribution to anthropology and as an intrinsic quality of nature.   

Indeed, if the edge of a theory or a model, is too thin and brittle, or too soft, it won't be sharp and tough enough to cut through the fog and grit of uncertainty. Please see video on, *"Splitting Hairs"* - https://youtu.be/aqkzQfpn3-E 

Also, while you are still toying with blades or edges, do try doubting the concept of doubt, and suspect your suspicions about perceivable things; or else, try being confident in your confidence about those very same things. 