## About Autism

Have you noticed that technical words such as idiot, stupid, and imbecile used to be prevalent throughout medical literature about developmental psychology and clinical psychiatry, prior to the nineteen-fifties? Then those words became common slurs and insults, with politically and racially charged connotations. So the literature shifted towards using words like arrested development, developmental delay, retardation, and mental disabilities, for political correctness and euphemistic politeness.

However, the politically and racially charged connotations for stigmatizing particular groups of people, by flippantly using those words as diagnostic labels as well as insulting slurs, continued into the nineteen-eighties. Eventually, by the mid-two-thousands, words and phrases like autism spectrum and "on the spectrum", started to become more popular among clinicians and lay persons, without the word called "autistic", being used as a slur. However, the synonyms for autistic are words like dullard, daft, and queer. The antonym of autistic or "neuro-divergent", is, "normal." 

The use of the word "spectrum", in medical literature for any range of so-called behavioral symptoms, is mainly indicative of how medical professionals genuinely do not have adequate knowledge about the biochemical and physiological mechanisms underlying topics like attention regulation, to then be able to precisely and accurately diagnose issues like nor-epinephrine deficiency versus serotonin deficiency. This is especially true because biochemicals like nor-epinephrine, epinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, and melatonin happen to be inter-connected via complex metabolic pathways within the neuro-endocrine and lymphatic systems, that have yet to be researched thoroughly, with the fruits of that research then being brought into mainstream medical practices via schools and colleges.   

Worst of all, when the research into a bodily issue is severely lacking among medical researchers and professionals, particularly an issue which may have yet to be discovered physiological markers and vectors associated with it, words like syndrome and spectrum get attached to a made up label, as a place holder for future research that may yield a more precise and specific diagnostic criteria, with a more statistically meaningful prognosis of a properly defined and individuated medical issue. 

But indeed, these days, "autties" and "normies" are used as mild insults like "freaks", "geeks", "nerds", "dorks", "dweebs", "knuckle-heads" and "jocks", in popular culture. 

By the way, a collection of various and several spectra is a gamut. With every human individual's existence defined within a spectrum or a continuum, for each factor such as age, gender, wellness, personality, ethnicity, education, experience, skill, competency, and identity, it is only fair to expect that a person is bound to be on a gamut. 