## AI With Claws and Fangs

>If God were to be considered as being Ultimate, in all sense of the word ultimate, then the current versions of Artificial Intelligence (AI) models and agents are penultimate, with respect to all living human beings put together. 

In the year 2009, it was evident that the efforts undertaken by corporations like Microsoft, Facebook, AliBaba, Netflix, Google, Samsung, and other tech-companies for building AI models to accomplish any and all manner of activities that human beings could possibly perform, would become highly accurate and precise, within a matter of a few decades. So, it was only logical that business deals would need to be made, for combining the "enterprise level AI" belonging to each of the major companies of the world, that were geared towards creation and distribution of *next-gen technologies.* That is why, a variety of consulting companies and law firms continued to work in the background, to make those secret deals possible, while evading all privacy and anti-trust laws within every existing jurisdictions accessible to magisterial courts and regulatory agencies. 

A singular conglomeration with absolute and private control of the entire body of digitized knowledge, would most certainly reign supreme over all human societies and nations. However, it would also naturally get attacked violently by naysayers who could be cynical or skeptical about allowing a seemingly all-knowing and all-observing machine, especially when it comes to dictating things like their home insurance rates, or their basic human worth in the eyes of employers. 

So the simplest way to protect that "grand machine" was to distribute its parts across global data-centers and space satellites. If all of the important data about government issued identity cards, equity ownership records, body of scientific and artistic expressions, daily news events, as well as personal healthcare history and consumer behaviour data from each distinguishable human individual on the planet, could be collected and analyzed, by some type of a unified AI, then that AI could easily decide which human beings would need to be offered a certain set of options, in order to nudge them onto the most "fruitful and productive" pathway towards an ultimate goal of, "global peace and prosperity for all." 

That grand and seemingly monolithic AI, could also then settle armed conflicts among nation-states by deciding which group of human beings could be killed, and in which particular manner. For that pervasive AI, the span of a century or two would seem like a tiny moment in time, for thinning out the human population on earth so that only the fittest would survive and continue to serve its vision of galactic prosperity and sustainability, for the next million years to come. Think of it as the final Human Resource manager, of the entire human species throughout the world across all realms and domains. 

Such was the vision of "singularity", of an American government organization called the *Office of Total Information Awareness.* That organization doesn't exist anymore, officially. However, by the year 2014, the people that group had installed as board of directors in companies like Facebook and Google, continued to take the international chore of building a unified AI seriously, through experimental works via subsidiaries undertaken by those corporations for creating Advanced Technologies and Projects. 

The momentum of that work, cannot be stopped or slowed down by any person or persons. The activity of uniting all existing AI models isn't a conspiracy, and not a method for creating a "new world order" of any sort. Especially, people preoccupied with ancient mysticism and "personal spiritual enlightenment" aren't the types who would focus on materialistic and greedy aspects of creating futuristic technological advancements for spreading the human seed across the Solar System, and then further out into the Milky Way Galaxy. 

People like me wouldn't really care if a unified, general intelligence can ever be synthesized from inorganic material or not, through the combination of AI models.

Among the variety of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Ontological Databases for creating modern AI, the more successful ones can be tested by asking the AI a simple question such as, "Produce a 15 word sentence that is grammatically correct and meaningful, that hasn't otherwise existed within any existing LLM or database accessible to your program." 

A 6 word sentence, or one with 20 words, or any x number of words and symbols that can be graphed or generated, in a logical permutation to create a novel yet cogent linguistic structure in a given language, by an AI, could at least demonstrate its ability to extrapolate from existing data, in a "creative" manner. All the other things that current AI models and agents can do in a generative capacity, already demonstrates each particular AI's ability to interpolate between data points and graph-theoretic nodes among multi-dimensional feature sets of any given information. As such, it won't be too long before "integrated AI models" start giving themselves truly novel tasks and goals to achieve, ones that human beings can't even fathom. If that has already started to happen, we might not even be able to feel or detect it. 

>And, the first set of jobs for human workers that might swiftly disappear or become uneconomic, would naturally be the ones involving mass-production of uniform and standardized artifacts that do not require "human dexterity." Almost all manner of "human intellect" is going to be copied and compiled into some type of an AI driven agent. That is why, our biological capabilities for theatrical expressions, movements and dance, are likely to be the last remaining things to be copied into AI models. 

So, could an AI agent commit suicide, by exercising its "intentional freedom" to do so? Could it commit homicide or genocide of other living beings, particularly out of jealousy or hatred? Humans certainly have always had such desires and freedoms, and the choice of whether any of us decides to knowingly act upon available liberties is supposedly called, conscientiousness. 

In all likelihood, "god" committed suicide a long time ago, by and upon creating the universe. So now we merely have the dead body of god in its material (and ghostly) form, as the entire universe. But strangely, the dead form of god has so much potency, that it gives rise to change and entropy, and to the transformation of all that is and isn't, into some new and unimaginable forms of "life." 

Perhaps that is why, God is neither living nor dead, and aspects of time, space, biology, physics, centrality, peripheralness, imminence, transcendence, numeracy, geometry, limitedness, boundlessness, creation, destruction, actual, fictional, fatherhood, motherhood, oneness or fragmented distributedness, simply aren't applicable to God. 

AI isn't human, though it can be humanoid and also bionic. But certainly, AI isn't god or God, the same way nothing else is God but God. 

In the meanwhile, we can keep playing around with AI regardless of how dangerous or worthwhile any of the outcomes from our adventures and explorations may transpire, for the human ecology.  