## Crash Reports

The [US-NTSB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Transportation_Safety_Board) report about the freight ship that crashed into the Francis Key Bridge in Baltimore, USA, is likely to take more than two years to conclusively produce a final statement about the causal factors that led to the incident. Honestly ruling out sabotage against the ship, is going to take quite the effort; and even if hacking into the ship's controls systems to cause complete systemic malfunction were an attack perpetrated by a sapper or a covert assailant, admitting to something like that to the public, is going to be practically impossible for the US government. 

Combination of factors such as a large cargo ship losing total control, with its crew and pilot not being able to drop the ship's anchors into the bay in time, in addition to absence of protective measures around the bridge's pylons such as "concrete dolphins", resulted in a tragedy. The ship's crew were able to send out a "may day" alert just in time, which allowed officials to halt vehicular traffic from moving onto the bridge, thus preventing the loss of many lives. However, construction workers on the bridge weren't evacuated who suffered fatalities from plummeting into the waters along with the ruble from the bridge's collapse. 

By the way, organizations like US-NTSB, [US-EPA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Environmental_Protection_Agency), and [FEMA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Emergency_Management_Agency) have the chore of excavating "the truth", while being woefully underfunded and being forced to operate with tiny teams of workers assigned to an ever increasing backlog of cases. This has become the accepted culture and norm among US government agencies since the past few decades, primarily because the type of people who work in those agencies, happen to be "sticklers for the truth", who are psychologically prone to sacrificing all they possibly can and then some, in order to achieve the task at hand. 

All industrialized societies rely on "insecure overachievers" who are compelled to sacrifice more than their fair share in terms of salaries, equities, and resources, so that other agencies which happen to be resource hungry black-holes, can continue to maintain "security, peace, and order" by using all available resources of a country, including [dark money.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_money) That dark money, which tends to cover some of the budgetary shortfall of various agencies, simply never gets accounted for by the government's treasury and its oversight committees. So, the actual budgetary deficit all government agencies currently have, is approximately 10% to 15% greater than what is being reported to the public each year. 

Like all other capitalist and socialist governments, the US government takes the debt owed to its lower level public-service workers, as a freely given "credit and vote of confidence", that it claims is voluntarily issued by the public, to the government, even though it is forcibly extracted through guile and deceit. However, top government officials such as Trump, have never been worthy of that credit and confidence, or of any respect, because those officials have continuously absconded from repaying their debt to the public, while simultaneously adding to their annual personal income and discretionary spending via outright thefts in broad daylight, every consecutive year for as long as they have been alive. People like Trump stoking insurrections or attempting to sabotage the decorum of elections, isn't something new within America's or the world's history. 

Are communist governments any better? No. Communist governments like monarchies, simply take ownership of everything within their territories including human beings, because of which, those human beings aren't owed anything at any point in time, by their non-elected, communist or monarchic government bodies. 

The real debt owed to the American public by the US government, especially in terms of long-overdue women's equal pay rights, and in terms of an increase in minimum wages and proper retirement benefits, is currently much greater than $14.5 Trillion USD. It just so happens that, there is no such thing as a *Repo-man* who can go after the US government, on behalf of the American public, to reposes assets and unearned incomes of higher-ups in the government sector, in order to repay at least some of the debt owed to the public. International investors also rely on the tragic gullibility of American public-service workers, so as to gain profits from US Treasury Bonds. However, aging and dying workers in Northern America, simply cannot generate sufficient productivity to sustain America's economic growth, unless they are replaced with automated business processes, robots, and much more gullible as well as easier to exploit migrant workers.   

Midst all such occurrences, imagine what would happen if millions of Americans were to default on their loans, especially on their student loans in a concerted manner, during the upcoming presidential elections, while at the same time, a range of countries and international investors were to offload hundreds of billions of USD in American notes and debentures, currently held by them.  