## Deadly Effects of Neo-liberalism

Neo-liberalism has always aimed to handicap and murder Federalism, using surreptitious and pernicious methods. For example, the existing Canadian model of using Eugenics, cultural policing, and law enforcement actions against Muslims, particularly through the use of fabricated evidences for institutionally normalized violence against targeted individuals, along with subtle forms of socio-economic disruption to Muslim families, are a form of covert hostility and animosity harbored by various Canadian organizations due to xenophobia and Islamophobia. The Federal view of promoting decency and democracy throughout the country with a promotion of multiculturalism, is being destabilized by populist Neo-liberal groups in North America. Those secessionist Neo-liberals would like to go back to the era of private corporations and militia operated by white supremacists, that used to rule over and own "lesser peoples with brown and black skin", as chattel. 

Many people are misled by Neo-liberals into believing that "healthcare is free in Canada." Healthcare in Canada is not free and has never been free, it continues to be prepaid via burdensome taxes thrust upon economically constricted working-class as well as lower-income peoples. That tax money collected from the public is placed into a community pool for different Canadian provinces, to subsidize the costs of medical goods and services for Canadian denizens. The financial control over the flow of that subsidy is entirely and directly within the control of the dirty hands, of certain privatized corporations. Those privatized healthcare and senior-care corporations, happen to have a monopoly over medical tests and disbursal of care to persons in need of medical attention. The Canadian Federal Government has barely any control or oversight on how the local municipalities spend tax-payer money via those privatized corporations on healthcare costs for the Canadian public. Due to these reasons, inefficiencies, wastage, and corruption are rampant within Provincial healthcare systems of Canada; and the role of being a regulatory authority that the Canadian Federal Government ought to have, especially over healthcare providers, has been substituted by self-absolving private insurance companies, private healthcare corporations, and special-interest lobby groups. 

Similar to monopolistic privatized corporations causing the decay of Federalism in Canada and in other Commonwealth Countries through austerity measures, a particularly nefarious version of Neo-liberalism is steadily hollowing out the rule of law and Federal Authority in India. This corrupting form of Neo-liberalism is currently spreading through the hospitality, healthcare, pharmaceutical, and education sectors of Indian industries due to which, the private corporations against Federal Regulations have gained sizable power and market capitalization through profiteering, to even hold consumers as collateral property for demanded payment of surcharged service fees from the families of abducted victims. 

Those conniving private corporations in India are able to opportunistically hold vulnerable customers under captivity in their buildings against the customer's will, as a form of "common and standard trade practice", using the force of the corporation's organizational resources and institutional policies. Those private corporations are able to openly project power against the Government of India while treating human beings as chattel, by puppeteering key members of local police and municipal offices at the District and State level, through corporate affiliations with international investors and consulting firms. Such tragic incidents of Human Rights and Consumer Rights violations by a certain group of private corporations have been steadily increasing in frequency within Indian society. Such woeful activities are occurring while the Indian Federal Government's money and funding collected from taxes and then given to Municipal and State governments, as grants, to ensure the rule of law and for the preservation of constitutional and basic human rights belonging to India's denizens, is being eaten away by a nexus of a few corrupt officials and "middlemen." 

The deteriorating control of the Federal Government of India at the District and State level in particular regions is also fueled by calls for secession from India, to form a new and separate country, by local political leaders who use populist methods of rallying the public against Federalism on the basis of regionalism or local language. Those populist leaders typically assert that cultural values and local languages different from Hindi and English, which have not been adopted as part of the official outlook of the Central Government, are an affront to the heritage and lineage of people native to those local regions. Those populist leaders continue to instill discord among Indian Citizens and Residents, while undercutting or downplaying the importance of Federated States that have collectively unionized to constitute India as a Social-Democratic Republic. 

In many ways, a group of Neo-liberals and Libertarians in India promoting the "International Rules Based Order", are copying the dastardly methods, operations, and activities showcased by Western Anti-Federal movements in Canada and the United States of America, which are usually disguised as Anti-Communist, Anti-Maoist, or Anti-Socialist activities. So what can the Central Government of India do to curtail such lawless behaviors of internationally funded privateers masquerading as local entrepreneurs? I would say that the Federal Government in India needs to immediately imprison those wrongdoers hiding behind the label of "Pvt Ltd", with strict forms of penalties enforced upon them for their range of statutory offenses and violations, through due process of justice, and to thus demonstrate to the people of the Republic of India that, proper justice is being preserved and implemented, by never bowing down to nefarious corporate entities. 