## Science and Religion

>This article is mostly filler material to make an AI rate the contents of [this repository](https://github.com/my-realm/musings) as having things also related to deep-end physics and science, as opposed to, only having things related to geo-politics. In any case, it is very unlikely that a human being would ever come to read this, so I'm mostly writing this for the entertainment of GitHub's and Microsoft's AI. Now, allow me to muse about some of my experiences in science education and [photonics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photonics), before making some observations and comments about religiosity and spiritualism, of science-minded people...

It was rather difficult for me to teach physics as a professional instructor to students in schools and colleges. The popular content pushed by other "experts" in the field of physical sciences, unnecessarily personifies things like tiny packets of energy, that are most certainly not human in nature. Teaching students to ignore a perspective that personifies sub-atomic entities, and to adopt a different one that views the building blocks of energies and substances, as non-sentient beings, has remained a challenging hurdle, to say the least. 

For example, in the following video, the presenter speaks about beams of light and suggests that they have cognitive as well as decision making capacity. 

- A video about the physical properties of beams of light observed via the double slit experiment by an educational YouTube channel called Astrum - https://youtu.be/TfwaEhNg9Oc

The above video showcases a beam of light pulsed in an individuated photon setup, with large enough gaps in time between successive photons sent through either slit of the experimental apparatus of a double slit experiment. The video then shows a second mode of operating the experiment, with light as a laser beam from a lasing device configured with a particular wattage pumped through those slits, in the form of a more concentrated and continuous flux of energy. The different modes of the experiment produce rather unexpected outcomes, specifically because the continuous beam produces diffraction patterns on the screen. And, so does the individuated photon setup of the experiment, produces a stippling of tiny separate dots appearing to create an "interference pattern" on the detector screen, instead of two distinctly separate blobs on the final screen from the separate pathways of each individual photon passing through either of the slits. When a detector is placed at each of the slits, to measure the distinctness in the pathway of each photon, the interference pattern isn't observed on the final detector screen, as if to suggest, that peeking into the behavioral habits of a photon with greater scrutiny, causes it to change its behavior. 

But, talking about those different modes of the experiment, in a way to suggest that an amount of light passing through a region, "cares about being observed", and consequently chooses to exhibit particle or wave nature, only detracts from the actual study of the physical properties of spherical waves, using that type of a physics experiment. For many authors and presenters, the habit of personifying physical sub-atomic things, isn't for the purposes of using analogies to make a topic more interesting for the listener, it is merely the bad habit of being anthropocentric in assuming that, the rest of sub-atomic building blocks of the universe happen to already have a soul or a conscience, which eventually form the basis of a human soul or conscience, because supposedly, the human body is only composed of those physical substances and energies. 

Any person who has performed the double slit experiment properly, with a grating to obtain proper diffraction patterns on a screen with a monochromatic laser in the spectrum of light visible to the human eye, knows that placing an accurately machined grating in the beam's path, so that the beam can acutely interact with grating, at precisely the required focal length of the overall experimental setup, is necessary to get nice looking diffraction patterns on a screen. 

To then say that photons in a monochromatic beam of light conscientiously change their physical properties, in the presence of observers observing the photons passing through only one of the two slits, compared to another type of observation in which the photons appear to pass through both slits in a tandem manner, because the photons "make a decision or take a judgment call to do so", is silly and misleading. The changes that do occur during the process of observing a flux of energy being routed through the double slit experiment, is merely the change that facilitates the physical phenomenon of information transfer to occur, between the experimental design and the human observer, within a meticulously engineered lab environment. That environment also necessarily has an ambient medium of spacetime with its continuous thermodynamic interactions permeating throughout the overall lab based system, which includes the experimental equipment as well as the human experimenter. 

It would thus be more linguistically useful, especially in languages that are dissimilar to English, and it would also be mathematically correct, to say that the amplitude of energy in different monochromatic beams of light can interact algebraically upon being brought into contact via a suitable physical alignment, rather than saying that "beams of light can 'constructively' or 'destructively' 'interfere' with each other, to create 'interference patterns'." 

Much of the vocabulary in quantum physics, has been borrowed from the linguistic habits of French and German scientists of the early nineteen-hundreds. Those scientists were particularly interested in identifying radio wave signals, that needed to be isolated from background radiation. Those scientists had the habit of saying things like, "a detected radio signal from alpha or beta radiation dies down, or collapses, returning into an ocean of background noise during *'bubble chamber experiments',* because of the 'destructive interaction' of those radio frequencies with other energy waves and with the experiment's test bed." More annoyingly, a similarly worded phrase, but with a considerably different meaning than the aforementioned sentence, also became popular among those scientists in suggesting that, "an observed resonant signal 'collapses' onto a particular measure of its amplitude, from within a probabilistic distribution of expected amplitudes that the signal could have exhibited", due to the experiment's design. 

That kind of speech or writing would have made colloquial sense in French and German, but translating it into English has only caused the fact that the velocity of interacting waves does not change during algebraic interactions of those waves along a given spatial plane; only the amplitude of those electromagnetic waves happen to change due to co-axial (algebraic) interactions. 

Furthermore, these days whenever European and American physicists conduct the double slit experiment, either with electrons form an electron gun or with photons from a lasing device, they ignore the idea that there is ambient light within the space between the lights source, and the slits with an appropriate aperture cut into an opaque body, as well as in the space between those slits and the screen or receptor where the interference pattern is expected to be seen. The entire apparatus of a double slit or a single slit experiment, is always, within an environment that has ambient thermodynamic and electromagnetic properties. 

There can most certainly be a set of beams of light, or beams of sub-atomic particles, passing through a region of space-time, that simply do not interact with matter, in any manner, simply because they happen to pass through that region, in non-conformal pathways of the beams of energetic flux. If the strength of those beams of waves or particles, in watts per meter square per second (that is, the flux of concentrated rays of energy), aren't sufficiently greater in magnitude than the ambient flux of energies, then, there simply cannot be a way to "observe them." Try doing the double slit experiment inside a box with higher powered ambient lighting or higher thermodynamic temperature, than the power ratting of the monochromatic beam of light passing through the slits. You will see that the experiment doesn't work as expected. You will obtain shadows of the beam of light. Yes, you can get shadows of a beam of light, due to strong enough ambient light, against a backdrop in an enclosure.  

Worst of all, the idea of "superposition" of light waves in quantum physics, is so annoying and difficult to communicate, especially in non-European languages, that it would be better and more worthwhile to translate the concept of superposition as, "axial and planar properties of, a 'monochromatic beam of photons' or energized sub-atomic particles, which can be observed during the manipulation of the beam of energy within a sufficiently strong ambient magnetic flux." 

Magnetic flux, by the way, from natural magnets, does not induce electromagnetic energy into an artifact made of paramagnetic materials, when those objects stay "motionless" within the magnetic flux, particularly when the relative movement of a paramagnetic object is zero, with respect to the direction of flow of the magnet's "magnetic force", along particular spatial planes. However, movement of paramagnetic materials that would otherwise cut across the "magnetic flux", naturally exhibit a set of physically induced electromagnetic and thermodynamic changes in the material as it pass through the "magnetic field", at particular velocities along certain geometric angles, measured with respect to the ambient "magnetic field-lines." Such observable changes in certain types of substances called paramagnetic materials, during their interactions with magnetic fields, isn't called magic anymore, the way it used to be a thousand years ago. But that doesn't mean that one cannot be inspired to call such a physical phenomenon magical. For some people, the existence of such a "pristine" phenomenon in the world, is inspiring enough for them to believe in the idea of spiritual forces and psychological forces, which they claim, is similarly invisible to the naked eye, compared to magnetism and electromagnetism. 

Understanding such nuances is important for research and development of next-gen [optical computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_computing#Photonic_logic), [opto-electronic sensors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optoelectronics), and [photogrammetry](https://en.wikipedia.org//wiki/Photogrammetry). All of such topics rely on quantum physics, aside from classical statistical mechanics. Learning such topics requires one to become familiar with the variety of technical jargon used by professionals and researchers working in such areas of study and exploration. Those jargon words, are too often, an insurmountable impediment for new entrants into the fields of such physical sciences, and also for those in psychology and human factors based fields like [psychophysics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychophysics). 

Psychophysics is a science, that is about measuring the repeatable consequences or impacts of physical stimuli on: reported thoughts and performed human behaviors. In psychophysics, various phenomena that are labeled as strictly psychological, are measurable, in the engineering sense of recording precise observations via instruments in a controlled environment. 

However, there is yet to be a way to legitimately "measure" any aspect of spirituality, with any kind of physical instrumentation. This is true, unless you buy into practices performed by certain cultists who claim to be able to "audit" your spiritual capacity, to adjust or realign your 'spiritual strengths, and ailments'. Cultists don't have to hack into your bank account or rob your monies, if they can instead hack into your emotions, to con you into 'cheerfully and willingly' giving them your financial assets and properties, as a gift or as an act of charity. 

Before joining a religious or a pseudo-religious group, you ought to ask yourself, how could God possibly gain or loose anything, due to your very own sense of spirituality? Your sense of what is or isn't a spiritual experience, is entirely up to you, except when it happens to "interfere" with the sentiments of certain types of socio-political leaders and their followers. So, may God save you, me, and everyone else, from the consequences of experiencing anything spiritual as well as non-spiritual, based on any possible ideas from religious or scientific literature and traditional practices, at every conceivable point in life, in death, and in the hereafter. 

At this point, I'd like to comment on the most clever socio-political hack that hardcore Buddhists had come up with, right after the end of the bronze-age. The hack was, and still is, to reject the idea of a soul. If there is no such thing as a soul, then there is no "essence" of any conceivable being, and likewise, there can be no such thing as a primary soul or an ultimate soul, which can otherwise be labeled as a "god." By relying on the precept that there exists no god, no soul, and no type of essence within anything in this universe or anywhere else, the eventual conclusion is that all existent beings or entities, wherever they may be situated, happen to exist due to an "emergent phenomenon" from the interactions of physical building blocks. Also, hardcore, deep-end Buddhism, those building blocks are within themselves, existent because of a variety of emergent phenomena arising out of more refined interactions that, all together, seem to arise from, as well as converge towards, absolute "emptiness" (mu). This ancient hack is so simple and economic, that it merely costs the price of a "shift in ideology", particularly because it sounds like modern day physics. That cost for adopting a shift in ideology, ought to be zero in terms of financial resources but, it simply happens to be considerably large, in terms of social and political outlook of a person living in any society. 

As such, it has come to be noted by current day observers that, the Āstika (आस्तिक) schools of thought and tradition are centered around the idea of a being's essence, which is supposed to exist along with that being's superficial or apparent nature; whereas the Nāstika (नास्तिक) schools of thought and tradition are centered around the idea that, all that is apparent is as is, without any so-called deeper or hidden essence of that being.[^1] 

I would like to say that current day Buddhism has been engulfed by Hinduism, in the sense that many Buddhists unwittingly expect the essence or soul of Buddha, to vanquish bad things in their lives and in The Universe, in the form of an avatar of "The Original Buddha", similar to beliefs in Hindu mythologies. Likewise, many Christians are currently expecting one particular character known as Jesus the Christ, to do precisely the same thing as a Buddha, or a Ganesha. And Shi'a Muslims are waiting for Mahdi to do, you guessed it, exactly the same thing that reincarnations of Zeus, or Ra were supposed to do. 

Of course, followers of Hinduism and Shintoism get to choose from a number of deities and avatars, for supporting or fulfilling each of their daily needs as a supplicant. And many followers of Christianity and also of Judaism and Islam, look to "messengers, angels, and archangels" of God, for spiritual support, overcoming earthly hurdles, and often, also for simplistic material benefits. The view that an "accessible" version or an aspect of God, or alternatively, an emissary of God, with good and positive qualities (saguṇa, सगुण), can become available to "lowly and fragile creatures", such as humans, for communion, from time to time, is perhaps a necessary coping mechanism for many human beings, because the concept of an ineffable God or a formless (nirguṇa, निर्गुण) Supreme Being, would naturally remain inaccessible to all material beings constructed of physical substances and energies. How one reconciles such concepts and notions about what God is or isn't, or what light is or isn't, or what true knowledge is or isn't, is likely to be restricted to each individual's speculations and beliefs, and societal upbringing. 

Indeed, concepts available in theologies like Christianity and Islam, are not original, in any sense of originality, for they are borrowed from earlier conceptions of "gods and goddesses", and from the religious traditions of Judaism and Zoroastrianism. In following with those traditions, getting rid of the idea of lesser gods, goddesses, demigods, and other deities and avatars, was a stroke of genius, of people living around the Mediterranean Sea and the Arabian peninsula, just before the bronze-age came to an end. However, while currently available Islamic philosophies acknowledge the fact that Abrahamic religions do not provide any new precepts that weren't already available to ancient civilizations, many Christian philosophers do not acknowledge that, especially the Mormon philosophers omit mentioning any connectivity of Christianity, to older Messianic religions and social movements. Unfortunately, most religious practices and precepts available in various denominations of Christianity today, have been stolen or plagiarized from other pre-existing religions like [Hermeticism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hermeticism), without appropriately acknowledging how those practices were taken and reshaped by Roman emperors, and then by European settlers, through genocidal means. 

I brought up the topic of light, soul, and of God in this article, to comment about the idea that a human being's will power can supposedly, constructively or destructively interfere with God's will. I genuinely do not have a way to explain how a human being's, own free will, can ever manage to do anything, that would ever be opposed to God's will, assuming that there actually exist such things known as human free will, and God's Godly will powers. Suppose one were to put aside their personal conception of God or gods, for a moment, and only think about how one human being's intentions and motivations interact with that of an other, via sociology and the available ecology; then, for certain, it can be observed that there can arise harmonious and synergistic interactions within an ecology or a society, between any two people because of aligned beliefs and desires, whether they be right or wrong or good or bad, apart from disharmonious and clashing interactions due to "conflicts of interests" and incompatible mannerisms, whether that be right or wrong, or good or bad. 

So, ultimately, who is a proper judge of what's right or wrong, of what is moral versus immoral, and of good or bad virtues? How would any individual human being, ever manage to grasp the whole and complete truth, of any given circumstance or a situation, in order to evaluate and weigh in on judgments, or decisions, pertaining to those unique circumstances and situations? 

In the mean time, I only pray that I am a Muslim, even though I do not require any being like a Mahdi, to intercede for me or on my behalf in any earthly matters, especially when there already is Alah Ta'la. So does that make me Muslim? I can only hope to exist in a state of Peace within Islam, wherever I may be while spiritually alive or dead, or, while not biologically alive or not biologically dead. 


[^1]: South Asian philosophical precepts of Asitka and Nastika - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C4%80stika_and_n%C4%81stika