## Maintaining Boundaries

Great powers of the world that managed to become dominant in various industry sectors at a global scale after WWII, may or may not continue to do anything worthwhile, or anything terribly wrong for the world, through their seemingly collaborative and cooperative, or otherwise transactional, international policies and sanctions. However, those very same, so-called great powers, have continued to do wretched things to poorer nations in overt as well as covert ways through trade wars and proxy wars, by colluding and forming cartels among industrialized nations, to rapaciously plunder the Earth's physical resources and its species.  

[The necessary defensive actions being put into effect](https://github.com/callthis/status-quo/blob/main/docs/0B.md), by countries fed up of being taken hostage, or of being taken undue advantage of, or of being neglected as global outcasts, in an outright opposition to the belligerent and beguiling nature of those arrogant bullies called "The Great Powers", involves marshaling and organizing all available resources in every way possible, to deter those parasitic and predatory nations from further gouging and pillaging the Earth. Particularly, defending against colonialist and imperialist designs that promote selfish and self-centered forms of predatory capitalism has become a necessary priority, for nations that intend to maintain neighborly and friendly borders.  

To maintain global peace, security, and order, one needs to be acutely aware that the concept of "Global-Full-Spectrum-Domination" adopted by The Great Powers, respects no boundaries in favor of subjugated peoples; especially not the types of boundaries that support decency, individuality, and privacy. Any country that is currently engaged in becoming, or is trying to become dominant in every aspect of human activities throughout all possible realms and domains, can only facetiously pretend to care about national and personal boundaries that have necessarily existed for ensuring the well being of diverse communities and individuals. Similarly, the arrogantly fiendish phrase, "All that light touches is our Kingdom", respects none of the rights that belong to subjugated peoples; especially not the rights pertaining to freedoms of thought, religious practice, and of creative expression. As such, any heads of state, or a group of people who believe in propagating colonialist concepts and phrases, are only gunning for perpetual wars against humanity, to create hell on Earth.  

Wouldn't you say that it is in the world's best interest, for every conscientious individual to exercise their right and duty to resist, and to ward off, colonialism and global-scale imperialism? 