## Change Is The Only Natural Order

Measure of entropy in a system is not about "order", or "disorder" within the given system, it is only about the extent to which changes in one sub-component of the system (at any given starting point of observation) can physically influence other sub-components or adjacent parts of an ensemble (within finite time steps or computation cycles). 

How loosely versus rigidly, sub-components in an ensemble happen to be coupled together or interconnected with each other, to be able to transmit changes from one part of the ensemble to another, is a momentary measure of information transfer within the system; that is, knowledge discovery becomes feasible only when a measure of entropy of a system, is noted by an observer coupled to that system within a much larger ensemble.  

This is how, de-coupled and independent sub-components of a system, cause the system to exist in a physical state with a higher level of entropy; compared to tightly or rigidly coupled, dependent sub-components of the same system at a different phase, which causes it to exist in a state with relatively lower levels of entropy. In this sense, entropy is also a measure of mechanical "rigidity" of a system. 

Often, cooling a clump of sub-components, of a system, makes them more rigidly stick to each other, becoming more densely compacted as they cool down towards thermodynamic temperature of zero Kelvin. And in the context of heating sub-components of a given system to greater values of positive Kelvin temperature, the sub-components tend to become more loosely associated and less dense, as long as they are not confined within a rigid physical container with immovable boundaries. 

There is usually a way to impart a sufficiently large influx of energy to a system over time, so that it, along with its entire boundary structure, can undergo disintegration. What this means is, keep heating a canister of any gas rapidly enough towards ever increasing temperatures, and the container will burst. However, if the walls of the canister of the gas are too thick to allow heat energy to reach the contained gas quickly, then, the canister will not burst, as its walls will end up dissipating heat to the environment via conduction, convection, and radiation, faster than the increase in it internal pressure. This is why crucibles for bringing metals to their molten state, need to be good conductors of heat, with a "thick and heavy" construction. 

Having said that, there are unexpected anomalies to be found in heating or cooling materials like water, germanium, and silicon between certain ranges of temperatures. For example, water, famously, exhibits unexpected changes to its density and volume, when being heated or cooled within the absolute temperature range of 273.15 and 277.15 Kelvins. In such cases, simplistic explanations about entropy in terms of, "order" versus "disorder", among sub-components of a macro-scale body of such materials, doesn't turn out to be psychologically pleasing. 

Lower versus higher entropy states of physical systems are any ways, not supposed to be given emotional labels like good, or desirable, or appeasing, or useful, from a psycho-social or a utilitarian perspective.  

However, measurably increasing levels of entropy in the entire universe (as a system), does imply an increasing level of "independence" among constituent entities existent within the universe. 

If the aforementioned view were true in the physical sense of "truth value", would it be surprising to witness the manner in which, globalized geo-political and socio-economic systems adopted by people living in the physical world, only continue to exhibit increasing degrees of freedom towards independence, from the international yolk of a uni-polar, "militaristic order", that has been historically enforced by nations from the North Western hemisphere of the globe? Of course, applying theoretical physics concepts to geo-politics, sociology, psychology, or anthropology is called sacrilegious "heresy", by irreligious professional physicists. 

Most importantly, the natural order, is not about Darwinism, nor is it about "jungle rules" where an apex predator in an ecosystem is expected to dominate other species within its microcosm. The natural order, is simply about the phenomenon of change, in and of itself, that abounds the universe, and not merely within pockets of human habitats on Earth. 