## My Writing and Publishing Process

We must first start with the assumption that a number of intelligence and security agencies are conducting constant, high-intensity level of surveillance, over all of my on-ground and online activities. The pertinent question isn't why they would bother to do something like that, the only worthwhile question is, "Why would they not be keeping tabs on a person who nudges them via Twitter, at least once every week?" 

I haven't yet gotten to the stage of pinging them daily via automated Tweets. Doing that, would most probably be considered as spamming them, which, I don't need to do. 

So, the maximum extent of surveillance that an agency from India, China, South Korea, Russia, Turkey, Germany, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Israel, the UK, the EU, the US, Canada, or from any other region might be able to do, would be to monitor my activities in real-time. 

Let's say that at least a few state-sponsored agencies and a variety of other non-state actors in the world, are currently capable of viewing the keystrokes and the screen of a target computer, such as mine, in real-time; and are capable of reading this text, as well as any other file in my computer network, as and when it gets created or edited by me. 

Let's call them Alphas. So, the Alphas conveniently have a "first mover advantage", over any other state-sponsored groups or non-state actors, all of whom may go through the contents of the files being published by me on GitHub and Twitter, after I upload them online. Let's call these groups that gain information from my activities, only after I publish some content online, as the Betas. 

However, I tend to edit and revise the "artistic" content I create, after it is initially published online, from time to time. So, maybe, simply waiting for a day or two before viewing my online self-published content, could be beneficial for obtaining more accurate and clear pieces of knowledge, from those files. 

Of course, there are many private articles and research notes on various topics that I have written, and keep writing, which are yet to be published. Those articles and notes are merely sitting in my computer, and maybe, just maybe, the Alphas could have got their hands on those files. Does that matter to anyone, is it significant or important in any respect? Who knows? ¯ \ _ (ツ) _ / ¯ 

In any case, I can only assume, that in arriving at any conclusive decisions or judgments, any group that has advanced monitoring and surveillance capabilities, is hopefully, not wasting their resources or squandering their efforts in vain, by using tax-payer monies for conducting real-time surveillance on little ol' me. 

Let us try to picture or tabulate, what that decision process for an intelligence company or bureau, might look like: 

- A decision matrix for evaluating whether some type of an activity done by a person or a group of people, is a threat of some sort to someone or not, requires the decision maker to create a predictive model, with a wide variety of parameters. Each of the intelligence agencies in the world, along with their think-tanks and contracted teams, have their own sets of proprietary "models", for conducting threat assessments. 

  - A model's predicted outcome might be objectively or subjectively rated by the model's developers as: True, or False. 

  - And the eventual outcome from a situation, in actuality, can be subjectively regarded by decision makers as being: Positive, or Negative with respect to their personal interests. 

  Prediction vs Actuality | Prediction True | Prediction False
     --- | --- | ---
     **Actuality Positive** | True-Positive | False-Positive
     **Actuality Negative** | True-Negative | False-Negative

  **Table 1:** Generic decision matrix for evaluating an outcome

Significance of the above table is context sensitive. Subsequently, regardless of what the predicted output from a statistical or a simulation based model turns out to be, on a daily or even a minute-by-minute basis, there remains a gap between taking a model's output, and then actually doing something tangible (concrete) with it. A decision to withhold a certain type of action based on some type of a model or intel, is of course, an action in itself. 

So, let us try to make the above set of ideas, more palpable, by going through a hypothetical scenario. 

Suppose, an intelligence or a law enforcement agency, becomes 'curious' about my activities, and intends to evaluate whether the materials being published online by me are "seditious" in some way, or are inciting the audience towards violence or "regicide", or are "radicalizing" them, or are somehow fraudulent or objectionable. Thereby, an agent or a team would get assigned to the task of monitoring my activities, and that agent or the team of analysts would then get to work, by looking into the contents of such files, using their assortment of tools and techniques. 

The first thing they might find, is that the overall content is rather voluminous, and that various files uploaded to publicly viewable online repositories, are encrypted. So then they may try to use some "heuristics", to come up with an actionable decision, based on a small sample of files from my GitHub repositories. Perhaps, they may spend some effort in decrypting the locked files, and then find that the contents of those files, are basically similar to the open sourced materials, except, with few details that might cause a national security analyst, to get slightly worked up. 

Eventually, after going through few more files, they are likely to find that some of the text within them contains phrases in different languages, perhaps, merely as an oddity, or as an actual "coded message" to somebody from me. 

Some of the agents or analysts might get vexed because of the daunting size of their assigned tasks, and decide that all of this is pointless or "spurious", and that I must be a mentally ill or a lame person, so they may give up. They may claim that their work here is completed, having labeled me, the author of such material, as simply weird or deranged. Of course, other teams of Alphas and Betas from other agencies, might not tier or give up so easily, as they wouldn't be satisfied with a simplistic reason for being dismissive of such content. Especially the Alphas may realize that, some of the files and text that only they are able to access, contain detailed materials about nuclear defense technologies and weaponry. They may also realize that there isn't anything that is actually stopping me from publishing those things online. But, then, they might wonder, "What would be the big deal if I were to open source all those yet to be published files." 

Arriving at a consensus among the members of a task-force, about what any of this is actually worth to an intelligence agency or to an ordinary person, may be achievable, mainly because one or the other influential member of the task-force, often makes a hard judgment call on behalf of their investigative team, to make things move along. However, it is highly unlikely that different teams, especially ones from different countries, would somehow arrive at the same conclusion from their separate investigations and analyses, because all of them have inherently different motivations, perspectives, biases, assumptions, and methodologies, in conducting their respective surveillance work; obviously! 

Imagine the situation of the poor agents keeping tabs on my activities, each of them wondering what they could have been doing in life, instead of the drudgery they have been assigned to. Or perhaps, some of them are absolutely duty-bound and "resolute", never wasting a moment or falling asleep on the job, constantly vigilant, and ever ready to outpace and outsmart, "the other camp." 

Maybe, by now, some of the Alphas and Betas could have figured out a way to collaborate to create the Sigma team; maybe. 

So, as the reader, whatever might be your assessment about my motivations, I can, simply tell you what my intentions and purposes are, in producing [such a vast array of content:](https://github.com/samkhan1) 

>I will make the pretentious cheats, the murderous goons, and the treacherous fiends who've hurt my family and diaspora, pay dearly. And I will stop those wrongdoers, for good, through your help and assistance.  

---

By the way, one might also benefit from considering a decision matrix of "planned vs unplanned activities" producing outcomes that are "fruitful vs unfruitful." [The following content is based on my lived experiences in Canada, which are proving to be similar to life's circumstances in India.]  

And no, I don't do espionage or spying, only because I find it deeply offensive. Espionage is an abject betrayal of trust and confidence, and is a severe invasion of privacy and confidentiality. It shouldn't be surprising that many countries have laws for executing apprehended spies for the high crimes of espionage against their national security. That is why I used to build counter surveillance equipment and tools. But then I had decided to move away from that industry in the year 2012, and instead use my abilities for healthcare needs of people suffering from neuro-degenerative issues.

Moreover, groups and agencies that conduct military or business espionage have an excuse that they conveniently give themselves, to make what they do, seem "necessary" and "righteous", to themselves. I have never bought into those excuses mainly because I don't like sappers and saboteurs who use those types of rationales to harm innocent civilians of politically opposing nations. According to me, if a military wanted you to know something, they would let you know about it, loud and clear. Aside from that, businesses simply market and advertise things that they want you to know about. Everything else is meant to be private, secret, and confidential. 

This is where law enforcement agencies and judiciaries produce a justification about "stated truth" of a suspect or a potential criminal, that is supposed to be different from the person's "revealed truth." Understandably, that type of a justification is one of the reasons why those government authorized agencies need to covertly observe a target to identify any potentially criminal activities, which may have been designed by the person being monitored, to evade detection. So, to those law enforcement agencies, particularly the Canadian ones in Ontario, what I have to say is this: 

>"When you don't know how to take your footprints and fingerprints with you, after covertly entering into a person's home or place of work or worship, without a warrant, then you simply shouldn't go around doing those types of clandestine activities, not even through proxy agents or private contractors. Painting an innocent individual as a "suspect" because of your paranoia, bigotry, xenophobia, or Islamophobia against certain groups of people, has been a systemic sociological fault and problem within Canada, Australia, the UK, and the US, for decades if not centuries. Plus, as public service units, you most certainly shouldn't have conducted any type of nefarious activities against any individuals or groups of people, to begin with." 

The much more problematic thing about various authorized agencies in North America conducting extremely invasive surveillance against Muslims and Asians, is its wide-spread discriminatory and racist nature. When government agencies that have a fiduciary duty to protect public interest without doing harm to members of the public, decide that Muslims in countries like Canada or the US are not "regular citizens or residents", then, those agencies naturally degrade their trustworthiness and violate the tenets of their fiduciary duties. Particularly the act of using double agents by Canadian authorities to spy on Muslims within mosques and homes of denizens, is a severe breach of trust and confidentiality, and that breach cannot be repaired or mended anytime soon. Of course, Canada isn't even trying to confess to such wrongdoings to then make proper amends, and has instead, doubled down on its deflectionary tactics and surreptitious operations. The traditional penalty, enforced in order to halt that type of insidiousness from state-sponsored violations borne out of clandestine hatred and racism, and to prevent it from becoming more wide-spread, was the **decimation of that nefarious state along with the eradication of its insidious groups of people.** 

It has become too easy and "normalized", for North American institutes and public service agencies to rapidly, and maliciously, pathologize or criminalize Muslims and Asians using fabricated or ginned up statements injected into databases used by those agencies. System-wide alerts and "red flags" are conveniently ascribed to profiled and targeted individuals by bigoted leaders, supervisors, and their officers, only to then inflict pernicious harms and injuries via state-regulated resources upon targeted individuals and groups. Those leaders and mangers in their fiduciary roles and capacities, have continued to maintain a culture of racism among publicly funded institutes and agencies of Commonwealth Countries like Canada. For example, each time, when members from a set of agencies in Ontario, such as the Waterloo Regional Public Services (WRPS), harass or abuse a targeted person, the victim is expected by the abusers to become stymied and servile. Any resistance or defenses that the targeted person may adopt against that type of harassment, only causes a range of "legally authorized", coordinated and multi-pronged abuses to be thrust upon the person to make them suffer devastatingly ruinous harms and injuries, including genocidal ones via Eugenics. 

It can also be expected that leaders of those wrongful agencies will cunningly attempt to label every piece of probative evidence in any type of documentary exposing their wrongdoings, as "propaganda", or as "misinformation", to willfully misdirect public attention away from the range of systemic errors and faults plaguing their network of agencies. 

All these types of violations and offenses being committed by various Canadian agents and agencies, are in contravention to their very own, publicly espoused, statutory rules and regulations including their venerated "Human Rights Charter." Additionally, those violators and offenders have found conniving ways to game the system, to willfully break their own laws, whenever they feel like it; all the while pretentiously portraying themselves as truthful, honorable, just, and trustworthy leaders of reputable organizations. Quite observably and evidently, owing to their racist and dastardly behaviors, they have been anything but truthful, honorable, just, and trustworthy. 

So, as you can see, my writing and publishing process, is a tiny effort towards rectifying the growing unlawfulness hidden within the everyday operations of those types of surreptitious agencies and institutes. This isn't, planes crashing into high-rise buildings of a city, or car-bombs detonating in the basement of federal agencies, is it? 