## Ordinary Evidence

Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence! No, not really. A claim of any expected size, only requires clear and truthful evidence.  

Evidence showcasing repeated infringements of intellectual properties and abuse of moral rights, each belonging to international students and workers, by state-sponsored entities like University of Iowa (UIowa) in the USA, via improper employment contracts, is as clear as clear can be, and as truthful as truthful can be. 

Analysts and investigators must keep in mind that, the meaning of the word "intellectual properties", also happens to include authored materials and work outputs, that weren't patented, but had copyrights attributed only to the original authors of those materials. Searching only through patent databases for a potential breach or infringement of intellectual property rights, obviously would not produce significant results about the myriad of research and development materials, composed by authors who never assigned or transferred those compositions to their employers or to any other entity. But, none-the-less, those workers had their compositions and work outputs with their default copyrights, misappropriated by their employers. 

Verifying the number of infringements, happens to be a worthwhile and a manageable task. This is because common sense indicates that the provided evidence of how one individual's copyrighted materials were misappropriated using a template based employment contract used throughout UIowa, was also the instrument used in violating the rights of all other students, scholars, and workers at UIowa who were employed using that template based contract. That template based employment contract never had the necessary clauses, or terms and conditions, for properly assigning or transferring copyrighted materials from their original authors, to UIowa or to any other sponsoring agencies. The moral rights contained within the copyrights, were also thus, violated and infringed upon.  

The [provided evidence](https://github.com/true-hindsight/long-overdue-justice/tree/main/reference/files) is clear and sufficient proof, as well as a justifiable cause, for compelling UIowa to take up the burden of publicly demonstrating its possession of employment contracts, which in turn are to showcase the legitimacy and legality of how the work outputs of UIowa's employees were assigned or wholly transferred to UIowa, and thereafter to sponsoring agencies of projects carried out via UIowa and its affiliates. 

UIowa's failure to do so, could be interpreted as its admission of guilt and culpability in misappropriating intellectual properties belonging to authors such as: local and international workers, scholars, and students. Therefore, the verbiage in UIowa's employment contracts, of every employee, dating to the earliest records available, when seen by the public, would be the only proper test with irrefutable proof of how the intellectual properties belonging to its employees were, or were not, misappropriated. 

Thereafter, once it is glaringly obvious to concerned members of the public and the international community, that the template based employment contract with its lack of verbiage for assigning or transferring work outputs from workers, scholars, and students, to UIowa, was used over a period of decades for violating the rights of umpteen individuals; the chore of tracing how those intellectual properties became incorporated into systems and materials sold to foreign countries like Qatar, via agencies such as DARPA,[^1] can be taken up. 

Of course, there would then remain the matter concerning: "How many more state-sponsored entities like UIowa, throughout North America, have been misappropriating intellectual properties and labors of students and workers?" 

The theft of intellectual properties by employers in any country, is an entirely ordinary and a frequent occurrence. Any entity from North America or the UK, which may claim that they have patented the stolen intellectual properties, to have thus "laundered" the copyrighted materials, would only prove further evidence of the way innocent people and skilled workers have continued to be exploited by predatory institutes and corporations. As such, the manner in which, North American state-sponsored and state-regulated organizations have continued to infringe upon the rights of students and workers, is profound, when the magnitude of the theft across institutes like UIowa over the past decades is taken into account. But the clear and truthful evidence showcasing the nature of that profound crime, is most certainly ordinary. 


[^1]: [DARPA - Defense Advanced Research and Projects Agency, United States Department of Defense, USA.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DARPA) 