## Recognizing Injustice

Do individual human beings have an innate sense of what is right or wrong? Of things that are morally and ethically good versus bad? Or at least, do human being have an innate ability to identify and recognize things that are either true, or false, or acceptable versus objectionable, within a given set of statements?  

Suppose that, not even a single human being has ever had such an innate sense and sensibility to recognize things that are true or false, good or bad, right or wrong, moral or immoral, ethical or unethical, fair or unfair, and, faithful or unfaithful. So then, the only way an individual or a group of people could have ever come up with any conception of worthwhile norms to adopt, and to consequently sustain those precepts among themselves, must have been through something external to "human intellect, intentionality, and intuition." Whatever that external being or force or inspirational factor might have been, it would have somehow imparted the required knowledge and wisdom to all such human beings, who were otherwise hapless since birth. Such human beings possibly couldn't have otherwise independently come up with their own original sense of things that are acceptable versus unacceptable, to their very own conscience, could they? 

It could be possible, that the set of factors which eventually instill a sense of morality and ethos among individuals or groups of people, is evolutionary, as it acts across a span of time and ecology, upon each human being, generation after generation, via the education and experiences such persons gather and share over their lifetime. 

So now, would you say that you as an individual, are one such human being who has never had their own sense of individuality and personhood, to be able to independently recognize things that are or aren't acceptable to your own conscience? Would you say that you have never had a single iota of originality and creativity within yourself, that is as integral to your very existence and conscience, as your own breath? 

>Is there someone or something else that is currently breathing for you, on your behalf? 

If you are sufficiently sane, mature, aware, and in sober control of your own sense of self, then even if you were to give credit to "fate" or "destiny" or to any "Higher Power", as the source of your own ideas and thoughts, by claiming that your thoughts and subsequent active choices are merely a consequence of information received from the zeitgeist and the environment you happen to live in, and that your thoughts and expressions happen to only materialize or manifest due to interpretations formed by your "mind" within that fateful or chance driven existence, then you would still need to identify and explain the responsibilities and creative outputs that are truly yours and not of any other person's, through some form of "originality." 

In what way is your conscious mind along with your personal identity, truly yours, and not a mere emergent phenomenon arising from seemingly random biochemical or physical interactions, in an otherwise 'uncaring' and 'soulless' universe? 

Is it factual and genuinely true to say that there has never been, and will never be any other entity who is exactly identical to you, in terms of having the lived experiences and characteristics that you've come to possess? 

It might indeed be safe to say that you are who you are, and I am who I am, and though we are similar in a number of ways and dissimilar in a whole bunch of other ways, we have already had the opportunity to interact with the shared world around us, using our own, personal sense and sensibilities. As a consequence of all that has been brought before us into the present, due to a past, and which is simultaneously being propelled into the future by factors unfolding right before our meek senses, any measure of true or false and of right or wrong, by any adopted set of social norms and standards, is going to keep evolving. 

Humanity's evolution as a whole, I believe, is currently heading in a direction that is becoming increasingly expensive for common people to withstand. The ability to live joyfully and gracefully, within an unpolluted, sustainable and unsullied ecology, in reasonable comfort and in peace, is becoming increasingly unfathomable and expensive in terms of the individual effort and attention needed, especially for maintaining a worthwhile, healthy, and meaningful life, with dignified and cleanly living standards. Such an existence has already become unfairly burdensome and withering, for the vast majority of people on this Earth. The unfairness, is mainly due to the unchecked greed and viciously predatory behaviors of only a few groups of powerful individuals in seats of authority and privilege, among the billions of existent human beings. These billions of ordinary human beings who continue to suffer on a daily basis, seem to lack the education, power, authority, vision, skills, and privileges, to do anything potent and significant about changing the "status quo" for the betterment of humankind. Any effort put in by ordinary people to rescue themselves from their torrid situation, gets immediately washed away by the overarching unfairness and injustice plaguing the world.  

Upon recognizing this prevalent injustice brought about in the world, that impacts almost all living beings due to the parasitic and predatory behaviors of so-called "Supreme Leaders" and of their servile "Culture Carriers", the indignant and injured masses of ordinary people suffering under the yoke of those leaders in each country, have the option to either sulk, or to complain to a somewhat sympathetic and "not yet corrupted" official, or to take matters into their own hands by deposing those culprits using every means necessary. 

As most of those suffering people are blamed for being lazy while being ravaged by those unrepentant culprits, I would say that the option to stay silent and to keep sulking or wallowing has ended for a good number of people. It can be observed that many people who are deserving of equitable treatment, and are skilled as well as bright, though underprivileged in society, are currently able to recognize the prevalent injustice along with the fact that their future possibly cannot get better, by following and maintaining the status quo. So now, the options are to voice a complaint, or to set into direct action using every available resource. 

People tend to complain, to someone they feel is going to listen to their plight. A complainant tends to do so with the hope that the persons listening, are going to do something substantial to alleviate actual burdens, and not merely give some paltry advice or witticism, or worse, dismissively admonish the suffering individual for complaining only to then, simply turn a blind eye to ongoing injustice. In this sense, a complainant already reposes trust and invests good-faith in the body or group of people who are perceived as being capable of hearing the complaint, and that body or group is also perceived as being capable of delivering genuine relief as well as lasting closure to the complainant. But, when the nature of the complaint is profound, one that impacts the vast majority of human society, such as a complaint about increasing pollution or wars on Earth due to rampant corruption among "society's elites with vested powers", then the matter needing to be resolved cannot proceed towards a worthwhile resolution through timely interventions, without a fundamental change or shift arising within the mindset of those who are in-charge of maintaining societal orderliness, and peace. 

>When a complaint or protest from the public about ongoing injustice falls on unfaithful or deaf ears, the despair subsequently generated by such an insult to injury, only pushes society towards morbidly increasing, bleak darkness. 

So then, people who don't have a whole lot of power, but happen to have a great deal of creativity, usually do certain types of things through direct action, especially using networked computers and telephones, that corrupt officials tend to label as, "mischief and disturbance of the peace." LOLs.

Whenever a corrupted court or a faltering judiciary system, holds innocent victims as contemptuous of the law, or enervates victims by causing them to suffer attrition, it only becomes ever more disdain worthy in the eyes of the public. This is true, especially when the demand for respect and credence is thrust upon victims or survivors, by notably unworthy officials, through the use of threatening or cunningly applied force via overt or clandestine actions of officiated henchmen belonging to bad leaders, while using blatantly tortuous or unfairly biased actions against victims and survivors. Such unfair actions taken by corrupted or incompetent officials, also inordinately impede and obstruct justice.  

Most importantly, when elected or appointed officials, turn a blind eye and a deaf ear to the bleeding public's outcries, by choosing to withhold investigations through inaction, particularly by saying things like, "let nature take its course", then, one of the paths that nature does take, ever so often throughout the ages, leads those dishonorable officials to The Guillotine, via revolutionary inquisitions. 
   
The evolution of a society can most probably proceed without tumultuous revolutions, and without beheading of heads of states, particularly in 'democratic' countries like the USA... but not when the upcoming presidential election is almost guaranteed to spur a civil war in America if Donald Trump as a convicted felon, is allowed (or denied) to contest for presidency. People with felony charges against them who are incarcerated in the US, or who happen to be fugitives from the law, aren't even allowed to vote in the US according to constitutional rules and statutes, let alone run for the Office of The President of the US. Amending or breaking those established and constituted laws for the sake of allowing Donald Trump to run for public office, would only permanently handicap the US Department of Justice.  

So, to prevent another insurrection by MAGA supporters, as well as any subversive actions that can be taken by ultra Neo-liberals, the current US Vice President, Kamala Harris, will most probably need to call upon the National Guard to ensure that polling stations, mail-in ballots, and booths aren't tampered with during the elections, and to additionally ensure that the peaceful transition of official powers after the election are faithfully conducted without interference from insurrectionists or, saboteurs. It is almost as though, implementing Martial Law by an Executive Order from the US Vice President would be necessary to merely conduct routine and democratic federal office elections, in the USA. 