## The Recompense

What type of a recompense can a person like me gain, from having been illegitimately detained and tortured by coordinated agencies in Ontario, Canada? 

After being framed by Canadian public service units in May-2020, as "a violent psychopath with affiliation to militia and mercenaries", the likelihood that I would ever be able to obtain rightful justice for the harms and damages they committed against me, was slim to none. After excavating their racist motivations and discriminatory prejudices in targeting Muslims, and then trying to file a lawsuit against those state-sponsored units, the eventual outcome was to suffer more injustice at the hands of Canadian agents and agencies. So, it was obviously necessary to document [the ongoing ordeal,](https://github.com/true-hindsight/long-overdue-justice/blob/main/expose/14-1.md#141-moving-on) and to post it online, in the public's interest, and for social-justice.   

Months and years have continued to elapse; each of the liable and responsible institutes, and agencies, that contributed tools, resources, trained threat-actors, as well as approbations for systematically conducting genocidal activities against Muslims and peoples of color in Canada, have continued to play dumb and behave nonchalant, after having been alerted and notified about the culpability of their members and affiliates. Notifications were sent to them privately via emails, and then after months of withstanding their deflectionary tactics, notifications were also sent to them via Twitter (X).   

It is very likely that their Twitter account is managed by a team or an individual, who hasn't bothered to forward the notices to their employers. And even if they have, their employers would have realized that their organization need not do anything because they aren't being pursued by a higher authority for their alleged, liable and culpable actions. Those wrongful organizations happen to include policing, healthcare, educational, social service, intelligence, immigration, and judiciary bodies, sponsored and regulated by provincial or federal governments in Canada, along with their private contractors and technology suppliers. So, the "higher authority", needed for delivering long-overdue justice in such matters involving ongoing international-scale crimes against systematically targeted victims, is yet to be defined. 

In the mean time, the murderous and infuriating things done by those organizations against me, have continued to be repeated against others, because, there is no proper authority that can bring those culprits to justice. 

However, all deeds do have consequences, for the people involved in a given situation, as well as for naive bystanders. Naturally, those deeds committed by responsible entities, including the choice to withhold an action and to remain silent, are tied to some or the other form of a recompense. 

Upon framing and branding me as a deluded and a deranged person, those organizations gave me the opportunity to speak every truth pertaining to this evolving situation, in the most open and forthright manner. Of course, it is very likely that many readers would find the topics presented by me in such articles as being, too overstated or melodramatic, and incredulous. They can be forgiven for expecting sugar-coated, bit-sized chunks of information that work towards their advantage, to be spoon-fed to them, especially because being exposed to 100% true statements, can be rather disconcerting for most human beings. 

I had wondered at one point in time, when I had started writing about this ongoing ordeal, "Which types of undue advantages would those organizations attempt to gain, from these documents?" 

By my speculations, I guessed that their analysts would have suggested they label the large volume of content in such articles, as being "typical" of a person who is merely posting an online rant. Somebody, perhaps, from their legal team or a hired public relations consulting firm, could have suggested that they paint me as an online miscreant or a troll, and to then reject or deny the set of allegations posited in such documents, if it were ever brought up by a news or an investigative agency. Those consultants, could have motioned that every institute named as being responsible or culpable in contributing to a range of violations and offenses, ought to regard such documentary work as false and misleading, or as a smear campaign. By denigrating the probative value of all material evidence and testimonies included in the linked repositories, the culpable people would be able to have such things burred by time, and then rendered ineffective or irrelevant to the roles and responsibilities of future members of Canada's public service agencies and private organizations. 

Furthermore, in asserting that such writings could only be produced by a misguided, drunk, depraved, doped, dishonest, or an insane person, they gave me the advantage of becoming overtly candid about a whole host of things involving them, and their affiliated networks of people and organizations. There are various harsh truths that individuals who care about maintaining a career, or an elite social status among friends and family, cannot say or write candidly on a publicly visible forum; but thanks to the vicious attacks thrust upon me and my family by operatives in Canada, I'm simply not one of those types of individuals, anymore. 

While some groups of people and agencies may speculate about who I am, and what my daily state of existence involves, only the ones that have had the ability to conduct 24x7 surveillance of my online and on-ground activities, would have more accurate data about my health and routines. Of course, it would be peculiar if different national and multi-national agencies had contradictory data, pertaining to my daily activities, or incongruous interpretations derived from their respective observations, wouldn't it? 

More importantly, each agency's methods for gathering intelligence, via reconnaissance and surveillance, could become known to other agencies maintaining their highly vigilant gaze on my location and activities, couldn't it? And were my messages on Twitter to various individuals and organizations sufficiently rude and suspicious looking for them to direct their investigative resources into following me? Oh, those Tweets were so seriously "inappropriate", weren't they? 

So, this time around, if Canadian agencies would like to fabricate data about me and my daily activities, to frame me as a criminal suspect, or to portray me as a danger to society by cunningly pathologizing and criminalizing my personhood, and by besmirching my character, their fiendish methods for doing so, would not only be visible to me, but to a number of people and organizations.  

During the years 2008, to 2010, I used to work for an engineering research lab in the US, in the fields of automation design, human resource management, operations research, and psychophysics, for building new psychometric techniques, counter-intelligence tools, and surveillance technologies. I never was a spy, nor have I ever spied for any organizations or individuals; nor do I intend to do so for any persons or entities. All of the analytical work I have ever done, utilized publicly available data from scientific journals and news reports. When I realized that my labors and intellectual properties were being abused by people who had hired me in 2008 for working on various projects, I tried to create distance between them and myself, only to be blackballed by them throughout the years 2010, to 2012. 

Following that, many years went by, and I tried to build a new and different life, far away from them and all things related to their foul activities, only to be bullied, harassed, and murderously attacked on multiple occasions by agencies in Canada, during 2019-2020. Those agencies in Canada repeatedly attempted to silence and repress me, and ultimately caused the death of my child, by defiling my home and destroying my relationships, and by causing visceral and reproductive harms using biochemical torture. Their systematically orchestrated nefarious deeds and surreptitious activities, have continued to be committed against people like myself and other denizens in North America, because of the age-old prejudices and xenophobic attitudes held by members of state-supported associations and corporations.  

So, is there any government body or a statutory organization in the world, that is accessible, and can prosecute those violators as well as put an end to their violations? I haven't come across one. Each country in the world is burdened with it own trials and tribulations. Moreover, diplomats and bureaucrats of most countries avoid confrontations involving agencies from North America and Western Europe, because they have been trained to do so. I however, am no one, and I certainly am not a diplomat or a bureaucrat. 

As such, I don't owe anything to countries like Turkey or China, nor do they owe me anything. Only certain state-sponsored organizations from Canada and the USA, along with a number of their affiliates and accreditation bodies, happen to owe me; and the repayments for their debt obligations, has become long-overdue. Coincidentally, I do not owe any debts or obligations to them, certainly not of fealty or nationalistic loyalty to any American, British, or Canadian entities. 

How and what exactly do American and Canadian entities owe, and how much is that debt going to compound each successive month? Most of that is explained in *"Appendix VI of The File."* However, till date, they have never paid to victims and survivors of their violations, not even after they have been caught red-handed in committing the kinds of malicious and dastardly deeds they have gotten away with, for decades. So, making them pay, is going to require newer means and methods, that will have to be, considerably different than the ways and means applied thus far, via formal and informal channels. 

The concerned or intrigued organizations and bureaus, of every country, are invited to watch the open-sourced construction of those, required tools and methods.  